doc/libpmem/pmem_memmove_persist.3.md, before:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(PMEM_MEMMOVE_PERSIST, 3)
collection: libpmem
header: PMDK
date: pmem API version 1.1
...

[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017-2018, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[comment]: <> (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[comment]: <> (are met:)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[comment]: <> (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[comment]: <> (      distribution.)
[comment]: <> (    * Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its)
[comment]: <> (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[comment]: <> (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)

[comment]: <> (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[comment]: <> ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[comment]: <> (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[comment]: <> (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[comment]: <> (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[comment]: <> (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[comment]: <> (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[comment]: <> ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE)
[comment]: <> (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

[comment]: <> (pmem_memmove_persist.3 -- man page for functions that provide optimized copying to persistent memory

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />


# NAME #

**pmem_memmove**(), **pmem_memcpy**(), **pmem_memset**(),
**pmem_memmove_persist**(), **pmem_memcpy_persist**(), **pmem_memset_persist**(),
**pmem_memmove_nodrain**(), **pmem_memcpy_nodrain**(), **pmem_memset_nodrain**()
-- functions that provide optimized copying to persistent memory


# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libpmem.h>

void *pmem_memmove(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len, unsigned flags);
void *pmem_memcpy(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len, unsigned flags);
void *pmem_memset(void *pmemdest, int c, size_t len, unsigned flags);
void *pmem_memmove_persist(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memcpy_persist(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memset_persist(void *pmemdest, int c, size_t len);
void *pmem_memmove_nodrain(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memcpy_nodrain(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memset_nodrain(void *pmemdest, int c, size_t len);
```


# DESCRIPTION #

**pmem_memmove**(), **pmem_memcpy**() and **pmem_memset**() functions provide
the same memory copying as their namesakes **memmove**(3), **memcpy**(3) and
**memset**(3), and ensure that the result has been flushed to persistence before
returning.

For example, the following code is functionally equivalent to **pmem_memmove**() (with flags equal to 0):

```c
	memmove(dest, src, len);
	pmem_persist(dest, len);
```

Calling **pmem_memmove**() may out-perform the above code, because
**libpmem**(7) implementation may take advantage of the fact that *pmemdest*
is persistent memory and use instructions such as *non-temporal* stores to
avoid the need to flush processor caches.

>WARNING:
Using these functions where **pmem_is_pmem**(3) returns false
may not do anything useful. Use libc functions in that case.

Unlike libc implementation, **libpmem** functions guarantee that if destination
buffer address and length are 8 byte aligned then all stores will be performed
using at least 8 byte store instructions. This means that a series of 8 byte
stores followed by **pmem_persist**(3) can be safely replaced by a single call
to one of the above functions.

The *flags* argument of all of the above functions has the same meaning.
It can be 0 or a bitwise OR of one or more of the following flags:

+ **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN** - modifies the behavior to skip the final
  **pmem_drain**() step. This allows applications to optimize cases where
  several ranges are being copied to persistent memory, followed by a single
  call to **pmem_drain**(). The following example illustrates how this flag
  might be used to avoid multiple calls to **pmem_drain**() when copying several
  ranges of memory to pmem:

```c
/* ... write several ranges to pmem ... */
pmem_memcpy(pmemdest1, src1, len1, PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN);
pmem_memcpy(pmemdest2, src2, len2, PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN);

/* ... */

/* wait for any pmem stores to drain from HW buffers */
pmem_drain();
```

The remaining flags say *how* the operation should be done, and are merely hints.

+ **PMEM_MEM_NONTEMPORAL** - Use non-temporal instructions.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_TEMPORAL**.

+ **PMEM_MEM_TEMPORAL** - Use temporal instructions.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_NONTEMPORAL**.

+ **PMEM_MEM_WC** - Use write combining mode.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_WB**.
  On x86\_64 this is an alias for **PMEM_MEM_NONTEMPORAL**.

+ **PMEM_MEM_WB** - Use write back mode.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_WC**.
  On x86\_64 this is an alias for **PMEM_MEM_TEMPORAL**.

Using an invalid combination of flags has undefined behavior.

Without any of the above flags **libpmem** will try to guess the best strategy
based on size. See **PMEM_MOVNT_THRESHOLD** description in **libpmem**(7) for
details.

**pmem_memmove_persist**() is an alias for **pmem_memmove**() with flags equal to 0.

**pmem_memcpy_persist**() is an alias for **pmem_memcpy**() with flags equal to 0.

**pmem_memset_persist**() is an alias for **pmem_memset**() with flags equal to 0.

**pmem_memmove_nodrain**() is an alias for **pmem_memmove**() with flags equal to **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN**.

**pmem_memcpy_nodrain**() is an alias for **pmem_memcpy**() with flags equal to **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN**.

**pmem_memset_nodrain**() is an alias for **pmem_memset**() with flags equal to **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN**.

# RETURN VALUE #

All of the above functions return address of the destination buffer.


# CAVEATS #
After calling any of the functions with **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN** flag you
should not expect memory to be visible to other threads before calling
**pmem_drain**(3) or any of the *\_persist* functions.  This is because on
x86\_64 those functions may use non-temporal store instructions, which are
weakly ordered. See "Intel 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer's Manual",
Volume 1, "Caching of Temporal vs. Non-Temporal Data" section for details.


# SEE ALSO #

**memcpy**(3), **memmove**(3), **memset**(3),
**libpmem**(7) and **<http://pmem.io>**

Commit message:

pmem: add PMEM_MEM_NOFLUSH flag

doc/libpmem/pmem_memmove_persist.3.md, after:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(PMEM_MEMMOVE_PERSIST, 3)
collection: libpmem
header: PMDK
date: pmem API version 1.1
...

[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017-2018, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[comment]: <> (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[comment]: <> (are met:)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[comment]: <> (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[comment]: <> (      distribution.)
[comment]: <> (    * Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its)
[comment]: <> (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[comment]: <> (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)

[comment]: <> (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[comment]: <> ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[comment]: <> (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[comment]: <> (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[comment]: <> (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[comment]: <> (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[comment]: <> (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[comment]: <> ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE)
[comment]: <> (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

[comment]: <> (pmem_memmove_persist.3 -- man page for functions that provide optimized copying to persistent memory

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />


# NAME #

**pmem_memmove**(), **pmem_memcpy**(), **pmem_memset**(),
**pmem_memmove_persist**(), **pmem_memcpy_persist**(), **pmem_memset_persist**(),
**pmem_memmove_nodrain**(), **pmem_memcpy_nodrain**(), **pmem_memset_nodrain**()
-- functions that provide optimized copying to persistent memory


# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libpmem.h>

void *pmem_memmove(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len, unsigned flags);
void *pmem_memcpy(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len, unsigned flags);
void *pmem_memset(void *pmemdest, int c, size_t len, unsigned flags);
void *pmem_memmove_persist(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memcpy_persist(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memset_persist(void *pmemdest, int c, size_t len);
void *pmem_memmove_nodrain(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memcpy_nodrain(void *pmemdest, const void *src, size_t len);
void *pmem_memset_nodrain(void *pmemdest, int c, size_t len);
```


# DESCRIPTION #

**pmem_memmove**(), **pmem_memcpy**() and **pmem_memset**() functions provide
the same memory copying as their namesakes **memmove**(3), **memcpy**(3) and
**memset**(3), and ensure that the result has been flushed to persistence before
returning (unless **PMEM_MEM_NOFLUSH** flag was used).

For example, the following code is functionally equivalent to **pmem_memmove**() (with flags equal to 0):

```c
	memmove(dest, src, len);
	pmem_persist(dest, len);
```

Calling **pmem_memmove**() may out-perform the above code, because
**libpmem**(7) implementation may take advantage of the fact that *pmemdest*
is persistent memory and use instructions such as *non-temporal* stores to
avoid the need to flush processor caches.

>WARNING:
Using these functions where **pmem_is_pmem**(3) returns false
may not do anything useful. Use libc functions in that case.

Unlike libc implementation, **libpmem** functions guarantee that if destination
buffer address and length are 8 byte aligned then all stores will be performed
using at least 8 byte store instructions. This means that a series of 8 byte
stores followed by **pmem_persist**(3) can be safely replaced by a single call
to one of the above functions.

The *flags* argument of all of the above functions has the same meaning.
It can be 0 or a bitwise OR of one or more of the following flags:

+ **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN** - modifies the behavior to skip the final
  **pmem_drain**() step. This allows applications to optimize cases where
  several ranges are being copied to persistent memory, followed by a single
  call to **pmem_drain**(). The following example illustrates how this flag
  might be used to avoid multiple calls to **pmem_drain**() when copying several
  ranges of memory to pmem:

```c
/* ... write several ranges to pmem ... */
pmem_memcpy(pmemdest1, src1, len1, PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN);
pmem_memcpy(pmemdest2, src2, len2, PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN);

/* ... */

/* wait for any pmem stores to drain from HW buffers */
pmem_drain();
```

+ **PMEM_MEM_NOFLUSH** - Don't flush anything. This implies **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN**.
  Using this flag only makes sense when it's followed by any function that
  flushes data.

The remaining flags say *how* the operation should be done, and are merely hints.

+ **PMEM_MEM_NONTEMPORAL** - Use non-temporal instructions.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_TEMPORAL**.
  On x86\_64 this flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_NOFLUSH**.

+ **PMEM_MEM_TEMPORAL** - Use temporal instructions.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_NONTEMPORAL**.

+ **PMEM_MEM_WC** - Use write combining mode.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_WB**.
  On x86\_64 this is an alias for **PMEM_MEM_NONTEMPORAL**.
  On x86\_64 this flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_NOFLUSH**.

+ **PMEM_MEM_WB** - Use write back mode.
  This flag is mutually exclusive with **PMEM_MEM_WC**.
  On x86\_64 this is an alias for **PMEM_MEM_TEMPORAL**.

Using an invalid combination of flags has undefined behavior.

Without any of the above flags **libpmem** will try to guess the best strategy
based on size. See **PMEM_MOVNT_THRESHOLD** description in **libpmem**(7) for
details.

**pmem_memmove_persist**() is an alias for **pmem_memmove**() with flags equal to 0.

**pmem_memcpy_persist**() is an alias for **pmem_memcpy**() with flags equal to 0.

**pmem_memset_persist**() is an alias for **pmem_memset**() with flags equal to 0.

**pmem_memmove_nodrain**() is an alias for **pmem_memmove**() with flags equal to **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN**.

**pmem_memcpy_nodrain**() is an alias for **pmem_memcpy**() with flags equal to **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN**.

**pmem_memset_nodrain**() is an alias for **pmem_memset**() with flags equal to **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN**.

# RETURN VALUE #

All of the above functions return address of the destination buffer.


# CAVEATS #
After calling any of the functions with **PMEM_MEM_NODRAIN** flag you
should not expect memory to be visible to other threads before calling
**pmem_drain**(3) or any of the *\_persist* functions.  This is because on
x86\_64 those functions may use non-temporal store instructions, which are
weakly ordered. See "Intel 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer's Manual",
Volume 1, "Caching of Temporal vs. Non-Temporal Data" section for details.


# SEE ALSO #

**memcpy**(3), **memmove**(3), **memset**(3),
**libpmem**(7) and **<http://pmem.io>**
