doc/libpmem/pmem_is_pmem.3.md, before:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(PMEM_IS_PMEM, 3)
collection: libpmem
header: PMDK
date: pmem API version 1.1
...

[comment]: <> (SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause)
[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017-2019, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (pmem_is_pmem.3 -- man page for libpmem persistence and mapping functions)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[NOTES](#notes)<br />
[CAVEATS](#caveats)<br />
[BUGS](#bugs)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />

# NAME #

**pmem_is_pmem**(), _UW(pmem_map_file),
**pmem_unmap**() - check persistency, create and delete mappings

# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libpmem.h>

int pmem_is_pmem(const void *addr, size_t len);
_UWFUNCR1(void, *pmem_map_file, *path, =q=size_t len, int flags,
	mode_t mode, size_t *mapped_lenp, int *is_pmemp=e=)
int pmem_unmap(void *addr, size_t len);
```

_UNICODE()

# DESCRIPTION #

Most pmem-aware applications will take advantage of higher level
libraries that alleviate the need for the application to call into **libpmem**
directly. Application developers that wish to access raw memory mapped
persistence directly (via **mmap**(2)) and that wish to take on the
responsibility for flushing stores to persistence will find the
functions described in this section to be the most commonly used.

The **pmem_is_pmem**() function detects if the entire range
\[*addr*, *addr*+*len*) consists of persistent memory. Calling this function
with a memory range that originates from a source different than
**pmem_map_file()** is undefined. The implementation of **pmem_is_pmem**()
requires a non-trivial amount of work to determine if the given range is
entirely persistent memory. For this reason, it is better to call
**pmem_is_pmem**() once when a range of memory is first encountered,
save the result, and use the saved result to determine whether
**pmem_persist**(3) or **msync**(2) is appropriate for flushing changes to
persistence. Calling **pmem_is_pmem**() each time changes are flushed to
persistence will not perform well.

The _UW(pmem_map_file) function creates a new read/write mapping for a
file. If **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is not specified in *flags*, the entire existing
file *path* is mapped, *len* must be zero, and *mode* is ignored. Otherwise,
*path* is opened or created as specified by *flags* and *mode*, and *len*
must be non-zero. _UW(pmem_map_file) maps the file using **mmap**(2), but it
also takes extra steps to make large page mappings more likely.

On success, _UW(pmem_map_file) returns a pointer to the mapped area. If
*mapped_lenp* is not NULL, the length of the mapping is stored into
\**mapped_lenp*. If *is_pmemp* is not NULL, a flag indicating whether the
mapped file is actual pmem, or if **msync**() must be used to flush writes
for the mapped range, is stored into \**is_pmemp*.

The *flags* argument is 0 or the bitwise OR of one or more of the
following file creation flags:

+ **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** - Create the file named *path* if it does not exist.
  *len* must be non-zero and specifies the size of the file to be created.
  If the file already exists, it will be extended or truncated to *len.*
  The new or existing file is then fully allocated to size *len* using
  **posix_fallocate**(3).
  *mode* specifies the mode to use in case a new file is created (see
  **creat**(2)).

The remaining flags modify the behavior of _UW(pmem_map_file) when
**PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is specified.

+ **PMEM_FILE_EXCL** - If specified in conjunction with **PMEM_FILE_CREATE**,
  and *path* already exists, then _UW(pmem_map_file) will fail with **EEXIST**.
  Otherwise, has the same meaning as **O_EXCL** on **open**(2), which is
  generally undefined.

+ **PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** - When specified in conjunction with
  **PMEM_FILE_CREATE**, create a sparse (holey) file using **ftruncate**(2)
  rather than allocating it using **posix_fallocate**(3). Otherwise ignored.

+ **PMEM_FILE_TMPFILE** - Create a mapping for an unnamed temporary file.
  Must be specified with **PMEM_FILE_CREATE**. *len* must be non-zero,
  *mode* is ignored (the temporary file is always created with mode 0600),
  and *path* must specify an existing directory name. If the underlying file
  system supports **O_TMPFILE**, the unnamed temporary file is created in
  the filesystem containing the directory *path*; if **PMEM_FILE_EXCL**
  is also specified, the temporary file may not subsequently be linked into
  the filesystem (see **open**(2)).
  Otherwise, the file is created in *path* and immediately unlinked.

The *path* can point to a Device DAX. In this case only the
**PMEM_FILE_CREATE** and **PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** flags are valid, but they are
both ignored. For Device DAX mappings, *len* must be equal to
either 0 or the exact size of the device.

To delete mappings created with _UW(pmem_map_file), use **pmem_unmap**().

The **pmem_unmap**() function deletes all the mappings for the
specified address range, and causes further references to addresses
within the range to generate invalid memory references. It will use the
address specified by the parameter *addr*, where *addr* must be a
previously mapped region. **pmem_unmap**() will delete the mappings
using **munmap**(2).

# RETURN VALUE #

The **pmem_is_pmem**() function returns true only if the entire range
\[*addr*, *addr*+*len*) consists of persistent memory. A true return
from **pmem_is_pmem**() means it is safe to use **pmem_persist**(3)
and the related functions to make changes durable for that memory
range. See also **CAVEATS**.

On success, _UW(pmem_map_file) returns a pointer to the memory-mapped region
and sets \**mapped_lenp* and \**is_pmemp* if they are not NULL.
On error, it returns NULL, sets *errno* appropriately, and does not modify
\**mapped_lenp* or \**is_pmemp*.

On success, **pmem_unmap**() returns 0. On error, it returns -1 and sets
*errno* appropriately.

# NOTES #

On Linux, **pmem_is_pmem**() returns true only if the entire range
is mapped directly from Device DAX (/dev/daxX.Y) without an intervening
file system.  In the future, as file systems become available that support
flushing with **pmem_persist**(3), **pmem_is_pmem**() will return true
as appropriate.

# CAVEATS #

The result of **pmem_is_pmem**() query is only valid for the mappings
created using _UW(pmem_map_file). For other memory regions, in particular
those created by a direct call to **mmap**(2), **pmem_is_pmem**() always
returns false, even if the queried range is entirely persistent memory.

Not all file systems support **posix_fallocate**(3). _UW(pmem_map_file) will
fail if **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is specified without **PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** and
the underlying file system does not support **posix_fallocate**(3).

_WINUX(=q= On Windows if **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is specified without
**PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** and the file exists, FILE_ATTRIBUTE_SPARSE_FILE and
FILE_ATTRIBUTE_COMPRESSED will be removed if the file has any, to physically
allocate space for the file. This is a workaround for _chsize() performance
issues. =e=)

# SEE ALSO #

**creat**(2), **ftruncate**(2), **mmap**(2),  **msync**(2), **munmap**(2),
**open**(2), **pmem_persist**(3),
**posix_fallocate**(3), **libpmem**(7) and **<https://pmem.io>**

Commit message:

doc: Fix the document of pmem_is_pmem().
pmem_is_pmem() can be used for filesystem dax now.

Since MAP_SYNC flag is already supported by XFS and EXT4,
pmem_is_pmem() can return true even if you use filesystem-dax.
So, we can fix the old description of its manual.

doc/libpmem/pmem_is_pmem.3.md, after:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(PMEM_IS_PMEM, 3)
collection: libpmem
header: PMDK
date: pmem API version 1.1
...

[comment]: <> (SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause)
[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017-2019, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (pmem_is_pmem.3 -- man page for libpmem persistence and mapping functions)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[NOTES](#notes)<br />
[CAVEATS](#caveats)<br />
[BUGS](#bugs)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />

# NAME #

**pmem_is_pmem**(), _UW(pmem_map_file),
**pmem_unmap**() - check persistency, create and delete mappings

# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libpmem.h>

int pmem_is_pmem(const void *addr, size_t len);
_UWFUNCR1(void, *pmem_map_file, *path, =q=size_t len, int flags,
	mode_t mode, size_t *mapped_lenp, int *is_pmemp=e=)
int pmem_unmap(void *addr, size_t len);
```

_UNICODE()

# DESCRIPTION #

Most pmem-aware applications will take advantage of higher level
libraries that alleviate the need for the application to call into **libpmem**
directly. Application developers that wish to access raw memory mapped
persistence directly (via **mmap**(2)) and that wish to take on the
responsibility for flushing stores to persistence will find the
functions described in this section to be the most commonly used.

The **pmem_is_pmem**() function detects if the entire range
\[*addr*, *addr*+*len*) consists of persistent memory. Calling this function
with a memory range that originates from a source different than
**pmem_map_file()** is undefined. The implementation of **pmem_is_pmem**()
requires a non-trivial amount of work to determine if the given range is
entirely persistent memory. For this reason, it is better to call
**pmem_is_pmem**() once when a range of memory is first encountered,
save the result, and use the saved result to determine whether
**pmem_persist**(3) or **msync**(2) is appropriate for flushing changes to
persistence. Calling **pmem_is_pmem**() each time changes are flushed to
persistence will not perform well.

The _UW(pmem_map_file) function creates a new read/write mapping for a
file. If **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is not specified in *flags*, the entire existing
file *path* is mapped, *len* must be zero, and *mode* is ignored. Otherwise,
*path* is opened or created as specified by *flags* and *mode*, and *len*
must be non-zero. _UW(pmem_map_file) maps the file using **mmap**(2), but it
also takes extra steps to make large page mappings more likely.

On success, _UW(pmem_map_file) returns a pointer to the mapped area. If
*mapped_lenp* is not NULL, the length of the mapping is stored into
\**mapped_lenp*. If *is_pmemp* is not NULL, a flag indicating whether the
mapped file is actual pmem, or if **msync**() must be used to flush writes
for the mapped range, is stored into \**is_pmemp*.

The *flags* argument is 0 or the bitwise OR of one or more of the
following file creation flags:

+ **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** - Create the file named *path* if it does not exist.
  *len* must be non-zero and specifies the size of the file to be created.
  If the file already exists, it will be extended or truncated to *len.*
  The new or existing file is then fully allocated to size *len* using
  **posix_fallocate**(3).
  *mode* specifies the mode to use in case a new file is created (see
  **creat**(2)).

The remaining flags modify the behavior of _UW(pmem_map_file) when
**PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is specified.

+ **PMEM_FILE_EXCL** - If specified in conjunction with **PMEM_FILE_CREATE**,
  and *path* already exists, then _UW(pmem_map_file) will fail with **EEXIST**.
  Otherwise, has the same meaning as **O_EXCL** on **open**(2), which is
  generally undefined.

+ **PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** - When specified in conjunction with
  **PMEM_FILE_CREATE**, create a sparse (holey) file using **ftruncate**(2)
  rather than allocating it using **posix_fallocate**(3). Otherwise ignored.

+ **PMEM_FILE_TMPFILE** - Create a mapping for an unnamed temporary file.
  Must be specified with **PMEM_FILE_CREATE**. *len* must be non-zero,
  *mode* is ignored (the temporary file is always created with mode 0600),
  and *path* must specify an existing directory name. If the underlying file
  system supports **O_TMPFILE**, the unnamed temporary file is created in
  the filesystem containing the directory *path*; if **PMEM_FILE_EXCL**
  is also specified, the temporary file may not subsequently be linked into
  the filesystem (see **open**(2)).
  Otherwise, the file is created in *path* and immediately unlinked.

The *path* can point to a Device DAX. In this case only the
**PMEM_FILE_CREATE** and **PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** flags are valid, but they are
both ignored. For Device DAX mappings, *len* must be equal to
either 0 or the exact size of the device.

To delete mappings created with _UW(pmem_map_file), use **pmem_unmap**().

The **pmem_unmap**() function deletes all the mappings for the
specified address range, and causes further references to addresses
within the range to generate invalid memory references. It will use the
address specified by the parameter *addr*, where *addr* must be a
previously mapped region. **pmem_unmap**() will delete the mappings
using **munmap**(2).

# RETURN VALUE #

The **pmem_is_pmem**() function returns true only if the entire range
\[*addr*, *addr*+*len*) consists of persistent memory. A true return
from **pmem_is_pmem**() means it is safe to use **pmem_persist**(3)
and the related functions to make changes durable for that memory
range. See also **CAVEATS**.

On success, _UW(pmem_map_file) returns a pointer to the memory-mapped region
and sets \**mapped_lenp* and \**is_pmemp* if they are not NULL.
On error, it returns NULL, sets *errno* appropriately, and does not modify
\**mapped_lenp* or \**is_pmemp*.

On success, **pmem_unmap**() returns 0. On error, it returns -1 and sets
*errno* appropriately.

# NOTES #

On Linux, **pmem_is_pmem**() returned true if the entire range
was mapped directly from Device DAX (/dev/daxX.Y) without an intervening
file system, or **MAP_SYNC** flag of **mmap(3)** is supported by the
file system on Filesystem DAX.

# CAVEATS #

The result of **pmem_is_pmem**() query is only valid for the mappings
created using _UW(pmem_map_file). For other memory regions, in particular
those created by a direct call to **mmap**(2), **pmem_is_pmem**() always
returns false, even if the queried range is entirely persistent memory.

Not all file systems support **posix_fallocate**(3). _UW(pmem_map_file) will
fail if **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is specified without **PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** and
the underlying file system does not support **posix_fallocate**(3).

_WINUX(=q= On Windows if **PMEM_FILE_CREATE** is specified without
**PMEM_FILE_SPARSE** and the file exists, FILE_ATTRIBUTE_SPARSE_FILE and
FILE_ATTRIBUTE_COMPRESSED will be removed if the file has any, to physically
allocate space for the file. This is a workaround for _chsize() performance
issues. =e=)

# SEE ALSO #

**creat**(2), **ftruncate**(2), **mmap**(2),  **msync**(2), **munmap**(2),
**open**(2), **pmem_persist**(3),
**posix_fallocate**(3), **libpmem**(7) and **<https://pmem.io>**
