doc/rpmemd/rpmemd.1.md, before:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(RPMEMD, 1)
collection: rpmemd
header: PMDK
date: rpmemd version 1.4
...

[comment]: <> (SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause)
[comment]: <> (Copyright 2016-2018, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (rpmemd.1.md -- man page for rpmemd)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[OPTIONS](#options)<br />
[CONFIGURATION FILES](#configuration-files)<br />
[EXAMPLE](#example)<br />
[DEFAULT CONFIGURATION](#default-configuration)<br />
[PERSISTENCY METHODS](#persistency-methods)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />

# NAME #

**rpmemd** - librpmem target node process (EXPERIMENTAL)

# SYNOPSIS #

```
$ rpmemd [--help] [--version] [<args>]
```

# DESCRIPTION #

The **rpmemd** process is executed on target node by **librpmem**(7) library over
**ssh**(1) and facilitates access to persistent memory over RDMA. The **rpmemd**
should not be run manually under normal conditions.

# OPTIONS #

Command line options overwrite the default **rpmemd** configuration, the global
configuration file and the user configuration file.

`-V, --version`

Displays **rpmemd** version and exits.

`-h, --help`

Prints synopsis and list of parameters and exits.

`-c, --config <path>`

Custom configuration file location. If the custom configuration file is
provided others are omitted. See **CONFIGURATION FILES**
section for details.

All options described in **CONFIGURATION FILES** section are
common for both the configuration file and the command line - the  equivalent
of the following line in the config file:

`option = value`

is

`--option value`

in the command line.

The following command line options: **--persist-apm**, **--persist-general**
and **--use-syslog** should not be followed by any value. Presence of each of them
in the command line turns on an appropriate option.
See **CONFIGURATION FILES** section for details.

`-r, --remove <poolset>`

Remove a pool described by given pool set file descriptor. It is interpreted
as a path to the pool set file relative to the pool set directory.

`-f, --force`

Ignore errors when removing a pool file using **--remove** option.

# CONFIGURATION FILES #

The **rpmemd** searches for the configuration files with following priorities:

+ The global configuration file located in **/etc/rpmemd/rpmemd.conf**.
+ The user configuration file located in the user home directory
  (**$HOME/.rpmemd.conf**).

The **rpmemd** can also read configuration from the custom configuration file
provided using **--config** command line option. See **OPTIONS**
section for details.

The default configuration is described in the
**DEFAULT CONFIGURATION** section.

The configuration file is a plain text file. Each line of the configuration file
can store only one configuration option defined as a *key=value* pair. Empty
lines and lines starting with *#* are omitted.

The allowed options are:

+ `log-file = <path>` - log file location

+ `poolset-dir = <path>` - pool set files directory

+ `persist-apm = {yes|no}` - enable **The Appliance Persistency Method**. This
  option must be set only if the target platform has non-allocating writes IO
  enabled. See **PERSISTENCY METHODS** section for details.

+ `persist-general = {yes|no}` - enable **The General Purpose Server Persistency
  Method**. See **PERSISTENCY METHODS** section for details.

+ `use-syslog = {yes|no}` - use **syslog**(3) for logging messages instead of log
  file

+ `log-level = <level>` - set log level value. Accepted *\<level\>* values are:

  + **err** - error conditions
  + **warn** - warning conditions
  + **notice** - normal, but significant conditions
  + **info** - informational message
  + **debug** - debug-level message

The **$HOME** sub-string in the *poolset-dir* path is replaced with the current user
home directory.

# EXAMPLE #

Example of the configuration file:

```
# This is an example of configuration file
log-file = $HOME/.logs/rpmemd.log
poolset-dir = $HOME/poolsets/
persist-apm = yes
persist-general = no
use-syslog = no # Use log file instead of syslog
log-level = info
```

# DEFAULT CONFIGURATION #

The **rpmemd** default configuration is equivalent of the following
configuration file:

```
log-file = /var/log/rpmemd.log
poolset-dir = $HOME
persist-apm = no
persist-general = yes
use-syslog = yes
log-level = err
```

# PERSISTENCY METHODS #

The **librpmem**(7) supports two methods for making data written to remote
persistent memory durable. The difference between the use of the two mechanisms
is based on whether **librpmem**(7) will make use of non-allocating writes on the
remote node.

+ **The General Purpose Server Persistency Method** does not have any
requirements for the platform on which the target daemon runs and can be enabled
by administrator using the *persist-general* option. This method utilize
**libpmem**(7) persistency mechanisms on remote node and requires additional
communication between initiator and remote node using the in-band connection.

+ **The Appliance Persistency Method** requires non-allocating writes enabled on
the platform and can be enabled by administrator using *persist-apm* option.
This method requires to issue an RDMA READ operation after the RDMA WRITE
operations performed on requested chunk of memory.

"Non-allocating write requests" is the Intel Integrated IO Controller mode
where all incoming PCIe writes will utilize non-allocating buffers for the write
requests. Non-allocating writes are guaranteed to bypass all of the CPU caches
and force the write requests to flow directly to the Integrated Memory
Controller without delay.

The **rpmemd** dynamically choose the appropriate persistency method and the
flushing to persistence primitive for GPSPM for each opened pool set name
depending on available persistency methods and whether all pool set parts are
stored in the persistent memory.

If the **Appliance Persistency Method** is enabled and the pool set is stored
in the persistent memory **rpmemd** will use the **Appliance Persistency
Method**. If the pool set is NOT stored in the persistent memory it will
fallback to the **General Puropose Server Persistency Method** with
**pmem_msync**(3).

If the **General Puropose Server Persistency Method** is enabled and the pool
set is stored in the persistent memory **rpmemd** will use **pmem_persist**(3).
If the pool set is NOT stored in the persistent momory it will use
**pmem_msync**(3).

See **pmem_persist**(3) and **pmem_msync**(3) for more details.

# SEE ALSO #

**ssh**(1), **pmem_msync**(3), **pmem_persist**(3),
**syslog**(3), **libpmem**(7), **libpmemobj**(7),
**librpmem**(7) and **<https://pmem.io>**

Commit message:

rpmem: set librpmem as deprecated

doc/rpmemd/rpmemd.1.md, after:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(RPMEMD, 1)
collection: rpmemd
header: PMDK
date: rpmemd version 1.4
...

[comment]: <> (SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause)
[comment]: <> (Copyright 2016-2018, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (rpmemd.1.md -- man page for rpmemd)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[OPTIONS](#options)<br />
[CONFIGURATION FILES](#configuration-files)<br />
[EXAMPLE](#example)<br />
[DEFAULT CONFIGURATION](#default-configuration)<br />
[PERSISTENCY METHODS](#persistency-methods)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />

# NAME #

**rpmemd** - librpmem target node process (DEPRECATED)

# SYNOPSIS #

```
$ rpmemd [--help] [--version] [<args>]
```

# DESCRIPTION #

The **rpmemd** process is executed on target node by **librpmem**(7) library over
**ssh**(1) and facilitates access to persistent memory over RDMA. The **rpmemd**
should not be run manually under normal conditions.

# OPTIONS #

Command line options overwrite the default **rpmemd** configuration, the global
configuration file and the user configuration file.

`-V, --version`

Displays **rpmemd** version and exits.

`-h, --help`

Prints synopsis and list of parameters and exits.

`-c, --config <path>`

Custom configuration file location. If the custom configuration file is
provided others are omitted. See **CONFIGURATION FILES**
section for details.

All options described in **CONFIGURATION FILES** section are
common for both the configuration file and the command line - the  equivalent
of the following line in the config file:

`option = value`

is

`--option value`

in the command line.

The following command line options: **--persist-apm**, **--persist-general**
and **--use-syslog** should not be followed by any value. Presence of each of them
in the command line turns on an appropriate option.
See **CONFIGURATION FILES** section for details.

`-r, --remove <poolset>`

Remove a pool described by given pool set file descriptor. It is interpreted
as a path to the pool set file relative to the pool set directory.

`-f, --force`

Ignore errors when removing a pool file using **--remove** option.

# CONFIGURATION FILES #

The **rpmemd** searches for the configuration files with following priorities:

+ The global configuration file located in **/etc/rpmemd/rpmemd.conf**.
+ The user configuration file located in the user home directory
  (**$HOME/.rpmemd.conf**).

The **rpmemd** can also read configuration from the custom configuration file
provided using **--config** command line option. See **OPTIONS**
section for details.

The default configuration is described in the
**DEFAULT CONFIGURATION** section.

The configuration file is a plain text file. Each line of the configuration file
can store only one configuration option defined as a *key=value* pair. Empty
lines and lines starting with *#* are omitted.

The allowed options are:

+ `log-file = <path>` - log file location

+ `poolset-dir = <path>` - pool set files directory

+ `persist-apm = {yes|no}` - enable **The Appliance Persistency Method**. This
  option must be set only if the target platform has non-allocating writes IO
  enabled. See **PERSISTENCY METHODS** section for details.

+ `persist-general = {yes|no}` - enable **The General Purpose Server Persistency
  Method**. See **PERSISTENCY METHODS** section for details.

+ `use-syslog = {yes|no}` - use **syslog**(3) for logging messages instead of log
  file

+ `log-level = <level>` - set log level value. Accepted *\<level\>* values are:

  + **err** - error conditions
  + **warn** - warning conditions
  + **notice** - normal, but significant conditions
  + **info** - informational message
  + **debug** - debug-level message

The **$HOME** sub-string in the *poolset-dir* path is replaced with the current user
home directory.

# EXAMPLE #

Example of the configuration file:

```
# This is an example of configuration file
log-file = $HOME/.logs/rpmemd.log
poolset-dir = $HOME/poolsets/
persist-apm = yes
persist-general = no
use-syslog = no # Use log file instead of syslog
log-level = info
```

# DEFAULT CONFIGURATION #

The **rpmemd** default configuration is equivalent of the following
configuration file:

```
log-file = /var/log/rpmemd.log
poolset-dir = $HOME
persist-apm = no
persist-general = yes
use-syslog = yes
log-level = err
```

# PERSISTENCY METHODS #

The **librpmem**(7) supports two methods for making data written to remote
persistent memory durable. The difference between the use of the two mechanisms
is based on whether **librpmem**(7) will make use of non-allocating writes on the
remote node.

+ **The General Purpose Server Persistency Method** does not have any
requirements for the platform on which the target daemon runs and can be enabled
by administrator using the *persist-general* option. This method utilize
**libpmem**(7) persistency mechanisms on remote node and requires additional
communication between initiator and remote node using the in-band connection.

+ **The Appliance Persistency Method** requires non-allocating writes enabled on
the platform and can be enabled by administrator using *persist-apm* option.
This method requires to issue an RDMA READ operation after the RDMA WRITE
operations performed on requested chunk of memory.

"Non-allocating write requests" is the Intel Integrated IO Controller mode
where all incoming PCIe writes will utilize non-allocating buffers for the write
requests. Non-allocating writes are guaranteed to bypass all of the CPU caches
and force the write requests to flow directly to the Integrated Memory
Controller without delay.

The **rpmemd** dynamically choose the appropriate persistency method and the
flushing to persistence primitive for GPSPM for each opened pool set name
depending on available persistency methods and whether all pool set parts are
stored in the persistent memory.

If the **Appliance Persistency Method** is enabled and the pool set is stored
in the persistent memory **rpmemd** will use the **Appliance Persistency
Method**. If the pool set is NOT stored in the persistent memory it will
fallback to the **General Puropose Server Persistency Method** with
**pmem_msync**(3).

If the **General Puropose Server Persistency Method** is enabled and the pool
set is stored in the persistent memory **rpmemd** will use **pmem_persist**(3).
If the pool set is NOT stored in the persistent momory it will use
**pmem_msync**(3).

See **pmem_persist**(3) and **pmem_msync**(3) for more details.

# NOTE #

The **librpmem**(7) library and **rpmemd** is deprecated since PMDK 1.12 release.
If you are interested in a remote persistent
memory support please look at new library **rpma** https://github.com/pmem/rpma.

# SEE ALSO #

**ssh**(1), **pmem_msync**(3), **pmem_persist**(3),
**syslog**(3), **libpmem**(7), **libpmemobj**(7),
**librpmem**(7) and **<https://pmem.io>**
