README.md, before:

# **PMDK: Persistent Memory Development Kit**

[![Travis build status](https://travis-ci.org/pmem/pmdk.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/pmem/pmdk)
[![GHA build status](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/workflows/PMDK/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/actions)
[![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://img.shields.io/coverity/scan/3015.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/pmem-pmdk)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/github/pmem/pmdk/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/gh/pmem/pmdk/branch/master)
[![PMDK release version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/pmem/pmdk.svg?sort=semver)](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/releases/latest)
[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/tiny-repos/pmdk.svg)](https://repology.org/project/pmdk/versions)
[![CodeQL status](https://github.com/pmem/pmemstream/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/pmem/pmemstream/actions/workflows/codeql.yml)
[![Security: bandit](https://img.shields.io/badge/security-bandit-yellow.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/actions/workflows/bandit.yml)

The **Persistent Memory Development Kit (PMDK)** is a collection of libraries and tools for System Administrators and Application Developers to simplify managing and accessing persistent memory devices. For more information, see https://pmem.io.

To install PMDK libraries, either install pre-built packages, which we build for every stable release, or clone the tree and build it yourself. **Pre-built** packages can be found in popular Linux distribution package repositories, or you can check out our recent stable releases on our [github release page](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/releases). Specific installation instructions are outlined below.

Bugs and feature requests for this repo are tracked in our [GitHub Issues Database](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/issues).

## Contents
1. [Libraries and Utilities](#libraries-and-utilities)
2. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
3. [Version Conventions](#version-conventions)
4. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
5. [Building PMDK](#building-pmdk)
	* [Make Options](#make-options)
	* [Testing the Libraries](#testing-the-libraries)
	* [Memory Management Tools](#memory-management-tools)
6. [Debugging](#debugging)
7. [Experimental Packages](#experimental-packages)
	* [Experimental Support for 64-bit ARM](#experimental-support-for-64-bit-arm-and-risc-v)
8. [Contact Us](#contact-us)

## Libraries and Utilities

All PMDK related libraries are described in detail on [pmem.io/pmdk](https://pmem.io/pmdk/).

Libraries available in this repository:
- [libpmem](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmem/):  provides low level persistent memory support.

- [libpmem2](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmem2/):  provides low level persistent memory support, is a new version of libpmem.

> NOTICE:
Support for async functions is deprecated since PMDK 1.13.0 release
and will be removed in the PMDK 1.14.0 release along with the miniasync dependency.

- [libpmemobj](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmemobj/):  provides a transactional object store, providing memory allocation, transactions, and general facilities for persistent memory programming.

- [libpmemblk](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmemblk/):  supports arrays of pmem-resident blocks, all the same size, that are atomically updated. (DEPRECATED)

> NOTICE:
The **libpmemblk** library is deprecated since PMDK 1.13.0 release
and will be removed in the PMDK 1.14.0 release.

- [libpmemlog](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmemlog/):  provides a pmem-resident log file. (DEPRECATED)

> NOTICE:
The **libpmemlog** library is deprecated since PMDK 1.13.0 release
and will be removed in the PMDK 1.14.0 release.

- [libpmempool](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmempool/):  provides support for off-line pool management and diagnostics.

**Libpmemset** has been removed from PMDK repository.

**Librpmem** library has been removed from PMDK repository. If you are interested in a remote persistent
memory support please look at new [librpma](https://github.com/pmem/rpma).

If you're looking for *libvmem* and *libvmmalloc*, they have been moved to a
[separate repository](https://github.com/pmem/vmem).

Available Utilities:

- [pmempool](https://pmem.io/pmdk/pmempool/): Manage and analyze persistent memory pools with this stand-alone utility

- [pmemcheck](https://pmem.io/2015/07/17/pmemcheck-basic.html): Use dynamic runtime analysis with an enhanced version of Valgrind for use with persistent memory.

Currently these libraries only work on 64-bit Linux.
For information on how these libraries are licensed, see our [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

## Getting Started

Getting Started with Persistent Memory Programming is a tutorial series created by Intel architect, Andy Rudoff. In this tutorial, you will be introduced to persistent memory programming and learn how to apply it to your applications.
- Part 1: [What is Persistent Memory?](https://software.intel.com/en-us/persistent-memory/get-started/series)
- Part 2: [Describing The SNIA Programming Model](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/the-nvm-programming-model-persistent-memory-programming-series)
- Part 3: [Introduction to PMDK Libraries](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/intro-to-the-nvm-libraries-persistent-memory-programming-series)
- Part 4: [Thinking Transactionally](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/thinking-transactionally-persistent-memory-programming-series)
- Part 5: [A C++ Example](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/a-c-example-persistent-memory-programming-series)

Additionally, we recommend reading [Introduction to Programming with Persistent Memory from Intel](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/introduction-to-programming-with-persistent-memory-from-intel)

## Version Conventions

- **Builds** are tagged something like `0.2+b1`, which means _Build 1 on top of version 0.2_
- **Release Candidates** have a '-rc{version}' tag, e.g. `0.2-rc3`, meaning _Release Candidate 3 for version 0.2_
- **Stable Releases** use a _major.minor_ tag like `0.2`

## Dependencies

Required packages for each supported OS are listed below. It is important to note that some tests and example applications require additional packages, but they do not interrupt building if they are missing. An appropriate message is displayed instead. For details please read the DEPENDENCIES section in the appropriate README file
(in tests/ or examples/ sub-directories).

See our **[Dockerfiles](utils/docker/images)** (used e.g. on our CI
systems) to get an idea what packages are required to build
the entire PMDK, with all the tests and examples.

You will need to install the following required packages on the build system:

* **autoconf**
* **pkg-config**
* **libndctl-devel** (v63 or later)
* **libdaxctl-devel** (v63 or later)
* **pandoc** (for documentation, required during install)

The following packages are required only by selected PMDK components
or features:

PMDK depends on libndctl to support RAS features. It is possible
to disable this support by passing NDCTL_ENABLE=n to "make", but we strongly
discourage users from doing that. Disabling NDCTL strips PMDK from ability to
detect hardware failures, which may lead to silent data corruption.
For information how to disable RAS at runtime for kernels prior to 5.0.4 please
see https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/issues/4207.

## Building PMDK

To build from source, clone this tree:
```
	$ git clone https://github.com/pmem/pmdk
	$ cd pmdk
```

For a stable version, checkout a [release tag](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/releases) as follows. Otherwise skip this step to build the latest development release.
```
	$ git checkout tags/1.13.1
```

Once the build system is setup, the Persistent Memory Development Kit is built using the `make` command at the top level:
```
	$ make
```

By default, all code is built with the `-Werror` flag, which fails
the whole build when the compiler emits any warning. This is very useful during
development, but can be annoying in deployment. If you want to **disable -Werror**,
use the EXTRA_CFLAGS variable:
```
	$ make EXTRA_CFLAGS="-Wno-error"
```
>or
```
	$ make EXTRA_CFLAGS="-Wno-error=$(type-of-warning)"
```

### Make Options

There are many options that follow `make`. If you want to invoke make with the same variables multiple times, you can create a user.mk file in the top level directory and put all variables there.
For example:
```
	$ cat user.mk
	EXTRA_CFLAGS_RELEASE = -ggdb -fno-omit-frame-pointer
	PATH += :$HOME/valgrind/bin
```
This feature is intended to be used only by developers and it may not work for all variables. Please do not file bug reports about it. Just fix it and make a PR.

**Built-in tests:** can be compiled and ran with different compiler. To do this, you must provide the `CC` and `CXX` variables. These variables are independent and setting `CC=clang` does not set `CXX=clang++`.
For example:
```
	$ make CC=clang CXX=clang++
```
Once make completes, all the libraries and examples are built. You can play with the library within the build tree, or install it locally on your machine. For information about running different types of tests, please refer to the [src/test/README](src/test/README).

**Installing the library** is convenient since it installs man pages and libraries in the standard system locations:
```
	(as root...)
	# make install
```

To install this library into **other locations**, you can use the `prefix` variable, e.g.:
```
	$ make install prefix=/usr/local
```
This will install files to /usr/local/lib, /usr/local/include /usr/local/share/man.

**Prepare library for packaging** can be done using the DESTDIR variable, e.g.:
```
	$ make install DESTDIR=/tmp
```
This will install files to /tmp/usr/lib, /tmp/usr/include /tmp/usr/share/man.

**Man pages** (groff files) are generated as part of the `install` rule. To generate the documentation separately, run:
```
	$ make doc
```
This call requires the following dependencies: **pandoc**.

**Install copy of source tree** can be done by specifying the path where you want it installed.
```
	$ make source DESTDIR=some_path
```
For this example, it will be installed at $(DESTDIR)/pmdk.

**Build rpm packages** on rpm-based distributions is done by:
```
	$ make rpm
```

To build rpm packages without running tests:
```
	$ make BUILD_PACKAGE_CHECK=n rpm
```
This requires **rpmbuild** to be installed.

**Build dpkg packages** on Debian-based distributions is done by:
```
	$ make dpkg
```

To build dpkg packages without running tests:
```
	$ make BUILD_PACKAGE_CHECK=n dpkg
```
This requires **devscripts** to be installed.

### Testing the Libraries

You will need to install the following package to run unit tests:
* **ndctl**

Before running the tests, you may need to prepare a test configuration file (src/test/testconfig.sh). Please see the available configuration settings in the example file [src/test/testconfig.sh.example](src/test/testconfig.sh.example).

To build and run the **unit tests**:
```
	$ make check
```

To run a specific **subset of tests**, run for example:
```
	$ make check TEST_TYPE=short TEST_BUILD=debug TEST_FS=pmem
```

To **modify the timeout** which is available for **check** type tests, run:
```
	$ make check TEST_TIME=1m
```
This will set the timeout to 1 minute.

Please refer to the **src/test/README** for more details on how to
run different types of tests.

### Memory Management Tools

The PMDK libraries support standard Valgrind DRD, Helgrind and Memcheck, as well as a PM-aware version of [Valgrind](https://github.com/pmem/valgrind).
By default, support for all tools is enabled. If you wish to disable it, supply the compiler with **VG_\<TOOL\>_ENABLED** flag set to 0, for example:
```
	$ make EXTRA_CFLAGS=-DVG_MEMCHECK_ENABLED=0
```

**VALGRIND_ENABLED** flag, when set to 0, disables all Valgrind tools
(drd, helgrind, memcheck and pmemcheck).

The **SANITIZE** flag allows the libraries to be tested with various
sanitizers. For example, to test the libraries with AddressSanitizer
and UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer, run:
```
	$ make SANITIZE=address,undefined clobber check
```

## Debugging

To enable logging of debug information, use debug version of a library and set
desired log level using (library-specific) variable, e.g. `PMEM_LOG_LEVEL=<level>`.

For more details see appropriate manpage (debbuging section), e.g.
[libpmem(7)](https://pmem.io/pmdk/manpages/linux/master/libpmem/libpmem.7.html#debugging-and-error-handling).

## Experimental Packages

Some components in the source tree are treated as experimental. By default,
those components are built but not installed (and thus not included in
packages).

If you want to build/install experimental packages run:
```
	$ make EXPERIMENTAL=y [install,rpm,dpkg]
```

### Experimental Support for 64-bit ARM and RISC-V

There is initial support for 64-bit ARM and RISC-V processors provided.
It is currently not validated nor maintained.
Thus, these architectures should not be used in a production environment.

### PowerPC support

PowerPC support is ppc64le only and includes all libraries. They should build
and pass all tests.

The on-media pool layout is tightly attached to the page size
of 64KiB used by default on ppc64le, so it is not interchangeable with
different page sizes, includes those on other architectures. For more
information on this port, contact Rajalakshmi Srinivasaraghavan
(rajis@linux.ibm.com) or Lucas Magalhães (lucmaga@gmail.com).

## Contact Us

For more information on this library, contact
Piotr Balcer (piotr.balcer@intel.com),
Andy Rudoff (andy.rudoff@intel.com), or post to our
[Google group](https://groups.google.com/group/pmem).

Commit message:

common: disable ppc64le build on Travis
Since it is failing for a long time and there is no interest in fixing
this situation, there is no point in keeping a constantly failing build.

README.md, after:

# **PMDK: Persistent Memory Development Kit**

[![GHA build status](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/workflows/PMDK/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/actions)
[![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://img.shields.io/coverity/scan/3015.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/pmem-pmdk)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/github/pmem/pmdk/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/gh/pmem/pmdk/branch/master)
[![PMDK release version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/pmem/pmdk.svg?sort=semver)](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/releases/latest)
[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/tiny-repos/pmdk.svg)](https://repology.org/project/pmdk/versions)
[![CodeQL status](https://github.com/pmem/pmemstream/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/pmem/pmemstream/actions/workflows/codeql.yml)
[![Security: bandit](https://img.shields.io/badge/security-bandit-yellow.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/actions/workflows/bandit.yml)

The **Persistent Memory Development Kit (PMDK)** is a collection of libraries and tools for System Administrators and Application Developers to simplify managing and accessing persistent memory devices. For more information, see https://pmem.io.

To install PMDK libraries, either install pre-built packages, which we build for every stable release, or clone the tree and build it yourself. **Pre-built** packages can be found in popular Linux distribution package repositories, or you can check out our recent stable releases on our [github release page](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/releases). Specific installation instructions are outlined below.

Bugs and feature requests for this repo are tracked in our [GitHub Issues Database](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/issues).

## Contents
1. [Libraries and Utilities](#libraries-and-utilities)
2. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
3. [Version Conventions](#version-conventions)
4. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
5. [Building PMDK](#building-pmdk)
	* [Make Options](#make-options)
	* [Testing the Libraries](#testing-the-libraries)
	* [Memory Management Tools](#memory-management-tools)
6. [Debugging](#debugging)
7. [Experimental Packages](#experimental-packages)
	* [Experimental Support for 64-bit ARM](#experimental-support-for-64-bit-arm-and-risc-v)
	* [Experimental Support for PowerPC](#experimental-support-for-powerpc)
8. [Contact Us](#contact-us)

## Libraries and Utilities

All PMDK related libraries are described in detail on [pmem.io/pmdk](https://pmem.io/pmdk/).

Libraries available in this repository:
- [libpmem](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmem/):  provides low level persistent memory support.

- [libpmem2](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmem2/):  provides low level persistent memory support, is a new version of libpmem.

> NOTICE:
Support for async functions is deprecated since PMDK 1.13.0 release
and will be removed in the PMDK 1.14.0 release along with the miniasync dependency.

- [libpmemobj](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmemobj/):  provides a transactional object store, providing memory allocation, transactions, and general facilities for persistent memory programming.

- [libpmemblk](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmemblk/):  supports arrays of pmem-resident blocks, all the same size, that are atomically updated. (DEPRECATED)

> NOTICE:
The **libpmemblk** library is deprecated since PMDK 1.13.0 release
and will be removed in the PMDK 1.14.0 release.

- [libpmemlog](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmemlog/):  provides a pmem-resident log file. (DEPRECATED)

> NOTICE:
The **libpmemlog** library is deprecated since PMDK 1.13.0 release
and will be removed in the PMDK 1.14.0 release.

- [libpmempool](https://pmem.io/pmdk/libpmempool/):  provides support for off-line pool management and diagnostics.

**Libpmemset** has been removed from PMDK repository.

**Librpmem** library has been removed from PMDK repository. If you are interested in a remote persistent
memory support please look at new [librpma](https://github.com/pmem/rpma).

If you're looking for *libvmem* and *libvmmalloc*, they have been moved to a
[separate repository](https://github.com/pmem/vmem).

Available Utilities:

- [pmempool](https://pmem.io/pmdk/pmempool/): Manage and analyze persistent memory pools with this stand-alone utility

- [pmemcheck](https://pmem.io/2015/07/17/pmemcheck-basic.html): Use dynamic runtime analysis with an enhanced version of Valgrind for use with persistent memory.

Currently these libraries only work on 64-bit Linux.
For information on how these libraries are licensed, see our [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

## Getting Started

Getting Started with Persistent Memory Programming is a tutorial series created by Intel architect, Andy Rudoff. In this tutorial, you will be introduced to persistent memory programming and learn how to apply it to your applications.
- Part 1: [What is Persistent Memory?](https://software.intel.com/en-us/persistent-memory/get-started/series)
- Part 2: [Describing The SNIA Programming Model](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/the-nvm-programming-model-persistent-memory-programming-series)
- Part 3: [Introduction to PMDK Libraries](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/intro-to-the-nvm-libraries-persistent-memory-programming-series)
- Part 4: [Thinking Transactionally](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/thinking-transactionally-persistent-memory-programming-series)
- Part 5: [A C++ Example](https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/a-c-example-persistent-memory-programming-series)

Additionally, we recommend reading [Introduction to Programming with Persistent Memory from Intel](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/introduction-to-programming-with-persistent-memory-from-intel)

## Version Conventions

- **Builds** are tagged something like `0.2+b1`, which means _Build 1 on top of version 0.2_
- **Release Candidates** have a '-rc{version}' tag, e.g. `0.2-rc3`, meaning _Release Candidate 3 for version 0.2_
- **Stable Releases** use a _major.minor_ tag like `0.2`

## Dependencies

Required packages for each supported OS are listed below. It is important to note that some tests and example applications require additional packages, but they do not interrupt building if they are missing. An appropriate message is displayed instead. For details please read the DEPENDENCIES section in the appropriate README file
(in tests/ or examples/ sub-directories).

See our **[Dockerfiles](utils/docker/images)** (used e.g. on our CI
systems) to get an idea what packages are required to build
the entire PMDK, with all the tests and examples.

You will need to install the following required packages on the build system:

* **autoconf**
* **pkg-config**
* **libndctl-devel** (v63 or later)
* **libdaxctl-devel** (v63 or later)
* **pandoc** (for documentation, required during install)

The following packages are required only by selected PMDK components
or features:

PMDK depends on libndctl to support RAS features. It is possible
to disable this support by passing NDCTL_ENABLE=n to "make", but we strongly
discourage users from doing that. Disabling NDCTL strips PMDK from ability to
detect hardware failures, which may lead to silent data corruption.
For information how to disable RAS at runtime for kernels prior to 5.0.4 please
see https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/issues/4207.

## Building PMDK

To build from source, clone this tree:
```
	$ git clone https://github.com/pmem/pmdk
	$ cd pmdk
```

For a stable version, checkout a [release tag](https://github.com/pmem/pmdk/releases) as follows. Otherwise skip this step to build the latest development release.
```
	$ git checkout tags/1.13.1
```

Once the build system is setup, the Persistent Memory Development Kit is built using the `make` command at the top level:
```
	$ make
```

By default, all code is built with the `-Werror` flag, which fails
the whole build when the compiler emits any warning. This is very useful during
development, but can be annoying in deployment. If you want to **disable -Werror**,
use the EXTRA_CFLAGS variable:
```
	$ make EXTRA_CFLAGS="-Wno-error"
```
>or
```
	$ make EXTRA_CFLAGS="-Wno-error=$(type-of-warning)"
```

### Make Options

There are many options that follow `make`. If you want to invoke make with the same variables multiple times, you can create a user.mk file in the top level directory and put all variables there.
For example:
```
	$ cat user.mk
	EXTRA_CFLAGS_RELEASE = -ggdb -fno-omit-frame-pointer
	PATH += :$HOME/valgrind/bin
```
This feature is intended to be used only by developers and it may not work for all variables. Please do not file bug reports about it. Just fix it and make a PR.

**Built-in tests:** can be compiled and ran with different compiler. To do this, you must provide the `CC` and `CXX` variables. These variables are independent and setting `CC=clang` does not set `CXX=clang++`.
For example:
```
	$ make CC=clang CXX=clang++
```
Once make completes, all the libraries and examples are built. You can play with the library within the build tree, or install it locally on your machine. For information about running different types of tests, please refer to the [src/test/README](src/test/README).

**Installing the library** is convenient since it installs man pages and libraries in the standard system locations:
```
	(as root...)
	# make install
```

To install this library into **other locations**, you can use the `prefix` variable, e.g.:
```
	$ make install prefix=/usr/local
```
This will install files to /usr/local/lib, /usr/local/include /usr/local/share/man.

**Prepare library for packaging** can be done using the DESTDIR variable, e.g.:
```
	$ make install DESTDIR=/tmp
```
This will install files to /tmp/usr/lib, /tmp/usr/include /tmp/usr/share/man.

**Man pages** (groff files) are generated as part of the `install` rule. To generate the documentation separately, run:
```
	$ make doc
```
This call requires the following dependencies: **pandoc**.

**Install copy of source tree** can be done by specifying the path where you want it installed.
```
	$ make source DESTDIR=some_path
```
For this example, it will be installed at $(DESTDIR)/pmdk.

**Build rpm packages** on rpm-based distributions is done by:
```
	$ make rpm
```

To build rpm packages without running tests:
```
	$ make BUILD_PACKAGE_CHECK=n rpm
```
This requires **rpmbuild** to be installed.

**Build dpkg packages** on Debian-based distributions is done by:
```
	$ make dpkg
```

To build dpkg packages without running tests:
```
	$ make BUILD_PACKAGE_CHECK=n dpkg
```
This requires **devscripts** to be installed.

### Testing the Libraries

You will need to install the following package to run unit tests:
* **ndctl**

Before running the tests, you may need to prepare a test configuration file (src/test/testconfig.sh). Please see the available configuration settings in the example file [src/test/testconfig.sh.example](src/test/testconfig.sh.example).

To build and run the **unit tests**:
```
	$ make check
```

To run a specific **subset of tests**, run for example:
```
	$ make check TEST_TYPE=short TEST_BUILD=debug TEST_FS=pmem
```

To **modify the timeout** which is available for **check** type tests, run:
```
	$ make check TEST_TIME=1m
```
This will set the timeout to 1 minute.

Please refer to the **src/test/README** for more details on how to
run different types of tests.

### Memory Management Tools

The PMDK libraries support standard Valgrind DRD, Helgrind and Memcheck, as well as a PM-aware version of [Valgrind](https://github.com/pmem/valgrind).
By default, support for all tools is enabled. If you wish to disable it, supply the compiler with **VG_\<TOOL\>_ENABLED** flag set to 0, for example:
```
	$ make EXTRA_CFLAGS=-DVG_MEMCHECK_ENABLED=0
```

**VALGRIND_ENABLED** flag, when set to 0, disables all Valgrind tools
(drd, helgrind, memcheck and pmemcheck).

The **SANITIZE** flag allows the libraries to be tested with various
sanitizers. For example, to test the libraries with AddressSanitizer
and UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer, run:
```
	$ make SANITIZE=address,undefined clobber check
```

## Debugging

To enable logging of debug information, use debug version of a library and set
desired log level using (library-specific) variable, e.g. `PMEM_LOG_LEVEL=<level>`.

For more details see appropriate manpage (debbuging section), e.g.
[libpmem(7)](https://pmem.io/pmdk/manpages/linux/master/libpmem/libpmem.7.html#debugging-and-error-handling).

## Experimental Packages

Some components in the source tree are treated as experimental. By default,
those components are built but not installed (and thus not included in
packages).

If you want to build/install experimental packages run:
```
	$ make EXPERIMENTAL=y [install,rpm,dpkg]
```

### Experimental Support for 64-bit ARM and RISC-V

There is initial support for 64-bit ARM and RISC-V processors provided.
It is currently not validated nor maintained.
Thus, these architectures should not be used in a production environment.

### Experimental Support for PowerPC

There is initial support for ppc64le processors provided.
It is currently not validated nor maintained.
Thus, this architecture should not be used in a production environment.

The on-media pool layout is tightly attached to the page size
of 64KiB used by default on ppc64le, so it is not interchangeable with
different page sizes, includes those on other architectures. For more
information on this port, contact Rajalakshmi Srinivasaraghavan
(rajis@linux.ibm.com) or Lucas Magalhães (lucmaga@gmail.com).

## Contact Us

For more information on this library, contact
Piotr Balcer (piotr.balcer@intel.com),
Andy Rudoff (andy.rudoff@intel.com), or post to our
[Google group](https://groups.google.com/group/pmem).
