.TH "pmempool\-check" "1" "" "" ""
.SS NAME
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\-check\f[] − Check and repair Persistent Memory Pool
.SS SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
pmempool\ check\ [<options>]\ <file>
\f[]
.fi
.SS DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[B]pmempool\f[] invoked with \f[C]check\f[] command checks
consistency of a given pool file.
If the pool file is consistent \f[B]pmempool\f[] exits with 0 value.
If the pool file is not consistent non\-zero error code is returned.
.PP
In case of any errors, the proper message is printed.
The verbosity level may be increased using \f[C]\-v\f[] option.
The output messages may be also suppressed using \f[C]\-q\f[] option.
.PP
It is possible to try to fix encountered problems using \f[C]\-r\f[]
option.
In order to be sure this will not corrupt your data you can either
create backup of the pool file using \f[C]\-b\f[] option or just print
what would be fixed without modifying original pool using \f[C]\-N\f[]
option.
.SS Available options:
.PP
\f[C]\-r,\ \[en]repair\f[]
.PP
: Try to repair a pool file if possible.
.PP
\f[C]\-y,\ \[en]yes\f[]
.PP
: Answer yes on all questions.
.PP
\f[C]\-N,\ \[en]no\-exec\f[]
.PP
: Don't execute, just show what would be done.
.PP
\f[C]\-b,\ \[en]backup\ <file>\f[]
.PP
: Create backup of a pool file before executing.
Terminate if it is \f[I]not\f[] possible to create a backup file.
This option requires \f[C]\-r\f[] option.
.PP
\f[C]\-q,\ \[en]quiet\f[]
.PP
: Be quiet and don't print any messages.
.PP
\f[C]\-v,\ \[en]verbose\f[]
.PP
: Be more verbose.
.PP
\f[C]\-h,\ \[en]help\f[]
.PP
: Display help message and exit.
.SS EXAMPLES
.PP
\f[C]pmempool\ check\ pool.bin\f[]
.PP
: Check consistency of pool.bin pool file
.PP
\f[C]pmempool\ check\ \[en]repair\ \[en]backup\ pool.bin.backup\ pool.bin\f[]
.PP
: Check consistency of pool.bin pool file, create backup and repair if
necessary.
.PP
\f[C]pmempool\ check\ \-rvN\ pool.bin\f[]
.PP
: Check consistency of pool.bin pool file, print what would be repaired
with increased verbosity level.
.SS SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]libpmemblk(3)\f[], \f[B]libpmemlog(3)\f[], \f[B]pmempool(1)\f[]
.SS PMEMPOOL
.PP
Part of the \f[B]pmempool(1)\f[] suite.
