.TH "pmempool" "1" "" "" ""
.SS NAME
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\f[] − Persistent Memory Pool Management Tool
.SS SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
pmempool\ [\[en]help]\ [\[en]version]\ <command>\ [<args>]
\f[]
.fi
.SS DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[B]pmempool\f[] is a management tool for \f[I]Persistent
Memory\f[] pool files created by \f[B]NVML\f[] libraries.
.PP
The main purpose of \f[B]pmempool\f[] is to provide a user with a set of
utilities for off\-line analysis and manipulation of pools created by
pmem libraries.
The pmempool is a generic command which consists of subcommands for
specific purposes.
Some of subcommands are required to work \f[I]without\f[] any impact on
processed pool, but some of them \f[I]may\f[] create a new or modify an
existing one.
.PP
The \f[B]pmempool\f[] may be useful for troubleshooting by system
administrators and for software developers who work on applications
based on \f[B]NVML\f[] library.
The latter may find these tools useful for testing and debugging
purposes also.
.SS OPTIONS
.PP
\f[C]\-V,\ \[en]version\f[]
.PP
: Prints the version of \f[B]pmempool.\f[]
.PP
\f[C]\-h,\ \[en]help\f[]
.PP
: Prints synopsis and list of commands.
.SS COMMANDS
.PP
Currently there is a following set of commands available:
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\-info(1)\f[]
.PP
: Prints information and statistics in human\-readable format about
specified pool.
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\-check(1)\f[]
.PP
: Checks pool's consistency and repairs pool if it is not consistent.
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\-create(1)\f[]
.PP
: Creates a pool of specified type with additional properties specific
for this type of pool.
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\-dump(1)\f[]
.PP
: Dumps usable data from pool in hexadecimal or binary format.
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\-rm(1)\f[]
.PP
: Removes pool file or all pool files listed in poolset configuration
file.
.PP
\f[B]pmempool\-convert(1)\f[]
.PP
: Updates the pool to the latest available layout version.
.PP
In order to get more information about specific \f[I]command\f[] you can
use \f[B]pmempool help .\f[]
.SS SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]libpmemlog(3) libpmemblk(3) libpmemobj(3)\f[]
