.\"
.\" Copyright 2016, Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"       the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"       distribution.
.\"
.\"     * Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.\" pmempool-convert.1 -- man page for pmempool convert command
.\"
.\" Format this man page with:
.\"	man -l pmempool-convert.1
.\" or
.\"	groff -man -Tascii pmempool-convert.1
.\"
.TH pmempool-convert 1 "pmem Tools version 1.0.0" "NVM Library"
.SH NAME
pmempool-convert \- Convert pool files from old layout versions to the newest
one.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pmempool convert
<file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pmempool
invoked with the
.B convert
command performs a conversion of the specified pool to the newest layout
supported by this tool. Currently only
.B libpmemobj(3)
pools are supported. It is
advised to have a backup of the pool before conversion. The conversion process
is not fail-safe - power interruption may damage the pool.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
pmempool convert pool.obj
# Updates pool.obj to the latest layout version.
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B pmempool(1) pmempool-info(1) libpmemobj(3)
.SH "PMEMPOOL"
Part of the
.B pmempool(1)
suite.
