doc/runtime_wait.3.md, before:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(RUNTIME_WAIT, 3)
collection: miniasync
header: RUNTIME_WAIT
secondary_title: miniasync
...

[comment]: <> (SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause)
[comment]: <> (Copyright 2022, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (runtime_wait.3 -- man page for miniasync runtime API)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />

# NAME #

**runtime_wait**(), **runtime_wait_multiple**() - wait for the completion of single
or multiple futures

# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libminiasync.h>

struct future {
	future_task_fn task;
	struct future_context context;
};

struct runtime;

void runtime_wait(struct runtime *runtime, struct future *fut);
void runtime_wait_multiple(struct runtime *runtime, struct future *futs[],
						size_t nfuts);
```

For general description of runtime API, see **miniasync_runtime**(7).

# DESCRIPTION #

The **runtime_wait**() function blocks the calling thread until the future structure
pointed by *fut* completes. While waiting the calling thread repeatedly polls the
future with **future_poll**(3) function until completion.

The **runtime_wait_multiple**() function works similar to the **runtime_wait**() function,
additionally it facilitates polling of multiple futures in an array.  **runtime_wait_multiple**()
function uniformly polls the first *nfuts* futures in the array pointed by *futs* until all
of them complete execution.

**miniasync**(7) runtime implementation makes use of the waker notifier feature to optimize
future polling. For more information about the waker feature, see **miniasync_future**(7).

## RETURN VALUE ##

The **runtime_wait**() function returns a pointer to a new runtime structure.

The **runtime_wait_multiple**() function does not return any value.

# SEE ALSO #

**future_poll**(3), **miniasync**(7),
**miniasync_future**(7) **miniasync_runtime**(7)
and **<https://pmem.io>**

Commit message:

Squashed 'src/deps/miniasync/' changes from 706d2635f..f3b809217
f3b809217 Merge pull request #110 from lplewa/master
11fddd440 masync: suppres unused parameters in future.h
1c6ba8d18 masync: 0.2.0-rc2 release
76ba3a10f Merge pull request #108 from pbalcer/fix-use-after-free-membuf
c2885af40 common: fix use-after-free in membuf in mt scenarios
1914de3de Merge pull request #106 from DamianDuy/updateAsyncDoc
ffedbde35 doc: update async property documentation
12e9fa42c Merge pull request #105 from DamianDuy/addAsyncDoc
cb1734572 doc: add async property to documentation
3b44a2cb9 Merge pull request #100 from DamianDuy/addAsyncFlag
9f740e491 masync: add flag indicating that future is async
b7216cab1 Merge pull request #90 from DamianDuy/addFlushOp
01ef54aa4 masync: add flush operation for DML data mover
c0c8f9ddf Merge pull request #104 from lukaszstolarczuk/update-docs
eb41ffcee doc: update code styling to properly appear in manpage
e573f7e89 Merge pull request #102 from lplewa/readback
c98664d80 Merge pull request #103 from pbalcer/atomic-load-ringbuf
2490b0cee common: use correct atomics in ringbuf
428ecdaf9 masync: add destination_readback flag to persistent memory writes
f1203f533 Merge pull request #71 from kswiecicki/masync-example-hashmap
bc1d04ef7 masync: add hashmap example
352b4c1aa Merge pull request #92 from lukaszstolarczuk/add-macro-is-init
a6e312918 Merge pull request #96 from kilobyte/no-arch-ifdefs
27e8795a8 masync: add macro to check if chain entry was initialized
790bb3522 Merge pull request #99 from lukaszstolarczuk/fix-manpage-header
af2e47738 common: replace improper 'RPMA' in man pages with 'MINIASYNC'
01e68810b masync: drop unused #ifdefs that block portability

git-subtree-dir: src/deps/miniasync
git-subtree-split: f3b809217fc6f4401c227e707708a803725290bc

doc/runtime_wait.3.md, after:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(RUNTIME_WAIT, 3)
collection: miniasync
header: RUNTIME_WAIT
secondary_title: miniasync
...

[comment]: <> (SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause)
[comment]: <> (Copyright 2022, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (runtime_wait.3 -- man page for miniasync runtime API)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />

# NAME #

**runtime_wait**(), **runtime_wait_multiple**() - wait for the completion of single
or multiple futures

# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libminiasync.h>

struct future {
	future_task_fn task;
	struct future_context context;
};

struct runtime;

void runtime_wait(struct runtime *runtime, struct future *fut);
void runtime_wait_multiple(struct runtime *runtime, struct future *futs[],
						size_t nfuts);
```

For general description of runtime API, see **miniasync_runtime**(7).

# DESCRIPTION #

The **runtime_wait**() function blocks the calling thread until the future structure
pointed by *fut* completes. While waiting the calling thread repeatedly polls the
future with **future_poll**(3) function until completion.

The **runtime_wait_multiple**() function works similar to the **runtime_wait**() function,
additionally it facilitates polling of multiple futures in an array.  **runtime_wait_multiple**()
function uniformly polls the first *nfuts* futures in the array pointed by *futs* until all
of them complete execution. Runtime execution can be influenced by future properties.
For more information about the future properties, see **miniasync_future**(7).

Properties, which affect runtime:
* **FUTURE_PROPERTY_ASYNC** property should be applied to asynchronous futures.
During **runtime_wait_multiple**() function, asynchronous futures have a priority over the
synchronous ones and, in general, are being polled first.

**miniasync**(7) runtime implementation makes use of the waker notifier feature to optimize
future polling. For more information about the waker feature, see **miniasync_future**(7).

## RETURN VALUE ##

The **runtime_wait**() function returns a pointer to a new runtime structure.

The **runtime_wait_multiple**() function does not return any value.

# SEE ALSO #

**future_poll**(3), **miniasync**(7),
**miniasync_future**(7) **miniasync_runtime**(7)
and **<https://pmem.io>**
