doc/poolset/poolset.5.md, before:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(POOLSET, 5)
collection: poolset
header: NVM Library
date: poolset API version 1.0
...

[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[comment]: <> (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[comment]: <> (are met:)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[comment]: <> (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[comment]: <> (      distribution.)
[comment]: <> (    * Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its)
[comment]: <> (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[comment]: <> (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)

[comment]: <> (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[comment]: <> ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[comment]: <> (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[comment]: <> (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[comment]: <> (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[comment]: <> (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[comment]: <> (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[comment]: <> ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE)
[comment]: <> (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

[comment]: <> (poolset.5 -- man page that describes format of pool set file)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[REPLICAS](#replicas)<br />
[NOTES](#notes)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />


# NAME #

poolset -- persistent memory pool configuration file format


# SYNOPSIS #

```c
mypool.set
```


# DESCRIPTION #

Depending on the configuration of the system, the available non-volatile
memory space may be divided into multiple memory devices. In such case, the
maximum size of the transactional object store could be limited by the capacity
of a single memory device. Therefore, **libpmemobj**(7), **libpmemblk**(7) and
**libpmemlog**(7) allow building object stores spanning multiple memory devices
by creation of persistent memory pools consisting of multiple files, where each
part of such a *pool set* may be stored on a different pmem-aware filesystem.

To improve reliability and eliminate single point of failure, **libpmemobj**(7)
also allows all the data written to a persistent memory pool to be copied
to local _WINUX(,or remote) pool *replicas*, thereby providing backup for the
persistent memory pool by producing a *mirrored pool set*. In practice,
the pool replicas may be considered as binary copies of the "master" pool set.
Data replication is not supported in **libpmemblk**(7) and **libpmemlog**(7).

The *set* file for each type of pool is a plain text file. Lines in the file
are formatted as follows:

+ The first line of the file must be the literal string "PMEMPOOLSET"

+ The pool parts are specified, one per line, in the format:

	*size* *pathname*

+ *Replica* sections, if any, start with the literal string "REPLICA".
See **REPLICAS**, below, for further details.

+ Lines starting with "#" are considered comments and are ignored.

The *size* must be compliant with the format specified in IEC 80000-13, IEEE 1541
or the Metric Interchange Format. These standards accept SI units with
obligatory B - kB, MB, GB, ... (multiplier by 1000) suffixes, and IEC units
with optional "iB" - KiB, MiB, GiB, ..., K, M, G, ... - (multiplier by 1024)
suffixes.

*pathname* must be an absolute pathname.

The *pathname* of a part can point to a Device DAX. Device DAX is the
device-centric analogue of Filesystem DAX. It allows memory ranges to be
allocated and mapped without need of an intervening file system.

Pools created on Device DAX have additional options and restrictions:

+ The *size* may be set to "AUTO", in which case the size of the device will be
automatically resolved at pool creation time.

+ To concatenate more than one Device DAX device into a single pool set, the
configured internal alignment must be 4KiB.

Please see **ndctl-create-namespace**(1) for more information on Device DAX,
including how to configure desired alignment.

The minimum file size of each part of the pool set is defined as follows:

+ For block pools, as **PMEMBLK_MIN_PART** in **\<libpmemblk.h\>**

+ For object pools, as **PMEMOBJ_MIN_PART** in **\<libpmemobj.h\>**

+ For log pools, as **PMEMLOG_MIN_PART** in **\<libpmemlog.h\>**

The net pool size of the pool set is equal to:

```
net_pool_size = sum_over_all_parts(page_aligned_part_size - 4KiB) + 4KiB
```
where
```
page_aligned_part_size = part_size & ~(page_size - 1)
```

Note that page size is OS specific. For more information please see
**sysconf**(3).

The minimum net pool size of a pool set is defined as follows:

+ For block pools, as **PMEMBLK_MIN_POOL** in **\<libpmemblk.h\>**

+ For object pools, as **PMEMOBJ_MIN_POOL** in **\<libpmemobj.h\>**

+ For log pools, as **PMEMLOG_MIN_POOL** in **\<libpmemlog.h\>**

Here is an example "mypool.set" file:

```
PMEMPOOLSET
100G /mountpoint0/myfile.part0
200G /mountpoint1/myfile.part1
400G /mountpoint2/myfile.part2
```

The files in the set may be created by running one of the following commands.
To create a block pool:

```
$ pmempool create blk <bsize> mypool.set
```

To create a log pool:

```
$ pmempool create log mypool.set
```


# REPLICAS #

Sections defining replica sets are optional. There may be multiple replica
sections.

Local replica sections begin with a line containing only the literal string
"REPLICA", followed by one or more pool part lines as described above.

_WINUX(,
=q=Remote replica sections consist of the *REPLICA* keyword, followed on
the same line by the address of a remote host and a relative path to a
remote pool set file:

```
REPLICA [<user>@]<hostname> [<relative-path>/]<remote-pool-set-file>
```

+ *hostname* must be in the format recognized by the **ssh**(1) remote login
client

+ *pathname* is relative to the root config directory on the target
node - see **librpmem**(3)

There are no other lines in the remote replica section - the REPLICA line
defines a remote replica entirely.
=e=)

Here is an example "myobjpool.set" file with replicas:

```
PMEMPOOLSET
100G /mountpoint0/myfile.part0
200G /mountpoint1/myfile.part1
400G /mountpoint2/myfile.part2

# local replica
REPLICA
500G /mountpoint3/mymirror.part0
200G /mountpoint4/mymirror.part1 _WINUX(,=q=

# remote replica
REPLICA user@example.com remote-objpool.set=e=)
```

The files in the object pool set may be created by running the following command:

```
$ pmempool create --layout="mylayout" obj myobjpool.set
```


# NOTES #

Creation of all the parts of the pool set and the associated replica sets can
be done with the **pmemobj_create**(3), **pmemblk_create**(3) or
**pmemlog_create**(3) function, or by using the **pmempool**(1) utility.

Restoring data from a local _WINUX(,or remote) replica can be done by using the
**pmempool-sync**(1) command or the _UW(pmempool_sync) API from the
**libpmempool**(3) library.

Modifications of a pool set file configuration can be done by using the
**pmempool-transform**(1) command or the _UW(pmempool_transform) API from the
**libpmempool**(3) library.

When creating a pool set consisting of multiple files, or when creating
a replicated pool set, the *path* argument passed to **pmemobj_create**(3),
**pmemblk_create**(3) or **pmemlog_create**(3) must point to the special *set*
file that defines the pool layout and the location of all the parts of the
pool set.

When opening a pool set consisting of multiple files, or when opening a
replicated pool set, the *path* argument passed to **pmemobj_open**(3),
**pmemblk_open**(3) or **pmemlog_open**(3) must point to the same *set* file
that was used for pool set creation.


# SEE ALSO #

**ndctl-create-namespace**(1), **pmemblk_create**(3), **pmemlog_create**(3),
**pmemobj_create**(3), **sysconf**(3), **libpmemblk**(7), **libpmemlog**(7),
**libpmemobj**(7) and **<http://pmem.io>**

Commit message:

common: adapt local (lib)pmempool to NOHDRS option
This covers pmempool sync, transform and info for local poolsets +
tests + docs.

doc/poolset/poolset.5.md, after:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(POOLSET, 5)
collection: poolset
header: NVM Library
date: poolset API version 1.0
...

[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[comment]: <> (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[comment]: <> (are met:)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[comment]: <> (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[comment]: <> (      distribution.)
[comment]: <> (    * Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its)
[comment]: <> (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[comment]: <> (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)

[comment]: <> (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[comment]: <> ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[comment]: <> (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[comment]: <> (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[comment]: <> (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[comment]: <> (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[comment]: <> (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[comment]: <> ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE)
[comment]: <> (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

[comment]: <> (poolset.5 -- man page that describes format of pool set file)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[REPLICAS](#replicas)<br />
[NOTES](#notes)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />


# NAME #

poolset -- persistent memory pool configuration file format


# SYNOPSIS #

```c
mypool.set
```


# DESCRIPTION #

Depending on the configuration of the system, the available non-volatile
memory space may be divided into multiple memory devices. In such case, the
maximum size of the transactional object store could be limited by the capacity
of a single memory device. Therefore, **libpmemobj**(7), **libpmemblk**(7) and
**libpmemlog**(7) allow building object stores spanning multiple memory devices
by creation of persistent memory pools consisting of multiple files, where each
part of such a *pool set* may be stored on a different pmem-aware filesystem.

To improve reliability and eliminate single point of failure, **libpmemobj**(7)
also allows all the data written to a persistent memory pool to be copied
to local _WINUX(,or remote) pool *replicas*, thereby providing backup for the
persistent memory pool by producing a *mirrored pool set*. In practice,
the pool replicas may be considered as binary copies of the "master" pool set.
Data replication is not supported in **libpmemblk**(7) and **libpmemlog**(7).

The *set* file for each type of pool is a plain text file. Lines in the file
are formatted as follows:

+ The first line of the file must be the literal string "PMEMPOOLSET"

+ The pool parts are specified, one per line, in the format:

	*size* *pathname*

+ *Replica* sections, if any, start with the literal string "REPLICA".
See **REPLICAS**, below, for further details.

+ Lines starting with "#" are considered comments and are ignored.

The *size* must be compliant with the format specified in IEC 80000-13, IEEE 1541
or the Metric Interchange Format. These standards accept SI units with
obligatory B - kB, MB, GB, ... (multiplier by 1000) suffixes, and IEC units
with optional "iB" - KiB, MiB, GiB, ..., K, M, G, ... - (multiplier by 1024)
suffixes.

*pathname* must be an absolute pathname.

The *pathname* of a part can point to a Device DAX. Device DAX is the
device-centric analogue of Filesystem DAX. It allows memory ranges to be
allocated and mapped without need of an intervening file system.

Pools created on Device DAX have additional options and restrictions:

+ The *size* may be set to "AUTO", in which case the size of the device will be
automatically resolved at pool creation time.

+ To concatenate more than one Device DAX device into a single pool set, the
configured internal alignment of the devices must be 4KiB, unless the *NOHDRS*
option is used in the pool set file.

+ If a line containing the string *OPTION NOHDRS* appears anywhere after the
*PMEMPOOLSET* string in a pool set file, Device DAX devices with different
internal alignment can be concatenated.

+ Using the *NOHDRS* option has important implications for data integrity
checking and recoverability in case of a pool set damage. See _UW(pmempool_sync)
API for more information about pool set recovery.

Please see **ndctl-create-namespace**(1) for more information on Device DAX,
including how to configure desired alignment.

The minimum file size of each part of the pool set is defined as follows:

+ For block pools, as **PMEMBLK_MIN_PART** in **\<libpmemblk.h\>**

+ For object pools, as **PMEMOBJ_MIN_PART** in **\<libpmemobj.h\>**

+ For log pools, as **PMEMLOG_MIN_PART** in **\<libpmemlog.h\>**

The net pool size of the pool set is equal to:

```
net_pool_size = sum_over_all_parts(page_aligned_part_size - 4KiB) + 4KiB
```
where
```
page_aligned_part_size = part_size & ~(page_size - 1)
```

Note that page size is OS specific. For more information please see
**sysconf**(3).

The minimum net pool size of a pool set is defined as follows:

+ For block pools, as **PMEMBLK_MIN_POOL** in **\<libpmemblk.h\>**

+ For object pools, as **PMEMOBJ_MIN_POOL** in **\<libpmemobj.h\>**

+ For log pools, as **PMEMLOG_MIN_POOL** in **\<libpmemlog.h\>**

Here is an example "mypool.set" file:

```
PMEMPOOLSET
100G /mountpoint0/myfile.part0
200G /mountpoint1/myfile.part1
400G /mountpoint2/myfile.part2
```

The files in the set may be created by running one of the following commands.
To create a block pool:

```
$ pmempool create blk <bsize> mypool.set
```

To create a log pool:

```
$ pmempool create log mypool.set
```


# REPLICAS #

Sections defining replica sets are optional. There may be multiple replica
sections.

Local replica sections begin with a line containing only the literal string
"REPLICA", followed by one or more pool part lines as described above.

_WINUX(,
=q=Remote replica sections consist of the *REPLICA* keyword, followed on
the same line by the address of a remote host and a relative path to a
remote pool set file:

```
REPLICA [<user>@]<hostname> [<relative-path>/]<remote-pool-set-file>
```

+ *hostname* must be in the format recognized by the **ssh**(1) remote login
client

+ *pathname* is relative to the root config directory on the target
node - see **librpmem**(3)

There are no other lines in the remote replica section - the REPLICA line
defines a remote replica entirely.
=e=)

Here is an example "myobjpool.set" file with replicas:

```
PMEMPOOLSET
100G /mountpoint0/myfile.part0
200G /mountpoint1/myfile.part1
400G /mountpoint2/myfile.part2

# local replica
REPLICA
500G /mountpoint3/mymirror.part0
200G /mountpoint4/mymirror.part1 _WINUX(,=q=

# remote replica
REPLICA user@example.com remote-objpool.set=e=)
```

The files in the object pool set may be created by running the following command:

```
$ pmempool create --layout="mylayout" obj myobjpool.set
```


# NOTES #

Creation of all the parts of the pool set and the associated replica sets can
be done with the **pmemobj_create**(3), **pmemblk_create**(3) or
**pmemlog_create**(3) function, or by using the **pmempool**(1) utility.

Restoring data from a local _WINUX(,or remote) replica can be done by using the
**pmempool-sync**(1) command or the _UW(pmempool_sync) API from the
**libpmempool**(3) library.

Modifications of a pool set file configuration can be done by using the
**pmempool-transform**(1) command or the _UW(pmempool_transform) API from the
**libpmempool**(3) library.

When creating a pool set consisting of multiple files, or when creating
a replicated pool set, the *path* argument passed to **pmemobj_create**(3),
**pmemblk_create**(3) or **pmemlog_create**(3) must point to the special *set*
file that defines the pool layout and the location of all the parts of the
pool set.

When opening a pool set consisting of multiple files, or when opening a
replicated pool set, the *path* argument passed to **pmemobj_open**(3),
**pmemblk_open**(3) or **pmemlog_open**(3) must point to the same *set* file
that was used for pool set creation.


# SEE ALSO #

**ndctl-create-namespace**(1), **pmemblk_create**(3), **pmemlog_create**(3),
**pmemobj_create**(3), **sysconf**(3), **libpmemblk**(7), **libpmemlog**(7),
**libpmemobj**(7) and **<http://pmem.io>**
