doc/libpmempool/pmempool_sync.3.md, before:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(PMEMPOOL_SYNC, 3)
collection: libpmempool
header: NVM Library
date: pmempool API version 1.1
...

[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[comment]: <> (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[comment]: <> (are met:)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[comment]: <> (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[comment]: <> (      distribution.)
[comment]: <> (    * Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its)
[comment]: <> (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[comment]: <> (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)

[comment]: <> (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[comment]: <> ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[comment]: <> (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[comment]: <> (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[comment]: <> (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[comment]: <> (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[comment]: <> (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[comment]: <> ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE)
[comment]: <> (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

[comment]: <> (pmempool_sync.3 -- man page for pmempool sync and transform)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[NOTES](#notes)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />


# NAME #

_UW(pmempool_sync), _UW(pmempool_transform) -- pool set synchronization and transformation


# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libpmempool.h>

_UWFUNCR1(int, pmempool_sync, *poolset_file,=q=
	unsigned flags=e=, =q= (EXPERIMENTAL)=e=)
_UWFUNCR12(int, pmempool_transform, *poolset_file_src,
	*poolset_file_dst, unsigned flags, =q= (EXPERIMENTAL)=e=)
```

_UNICODE()


# DESCRIPTION #

The _UW(pmempool_sync) function synchronizes data between replicas within
a pool set.

_UW(pmempool_sync) accepts two arguments:

* *poolset_file* - a path to a pool set file,

* *flags* - a combination of flags (ORed) which modify how synchronization
is performed.

>NOTE: Only the pool set file used to create the pool should be used
for syncing the pool.

The following flags are available:

* **PMEMPOOL_DRY_RUN** - do not apply changes, only check for viability of
synchronization.

_UW(pmempool_sync) checks that the metadata of all replicas in
a pool set is consistent, i.e. all parts are healthy, and if any of them is
not, the corrupted or missing parts are recreated and filled with data from
one of the healthy replicas.

_UW(pmempool_transform) modifies the internal structure of a
pool set. It supports the following operations:

* adding one or more replicas,

* removing one or more replicas,

* reordering of replicas.


_UW(pmempool_transform) accepts three arguments:

* *poolset_file_src* - pathname of the pool *set* file for the source
pool set to be changed,

* *poolset_file_dst* - pathname of the pool *set* file that defines the new
structure of the pool set,

* *flags* - a combination of flags (ORed) which modify how synchronization
is performed.

The following flags are available:

* **PMEMPOOL_DRY_RUN** - do not apply changes, only check for viability of
synchronization.

When adding or deleting replicas, the two pool set files can differ only in the
definitions of replicas which are to be added or deleted. One cannot add and
remove replicas in the same step. Only one of these operations can be performed
at a time. Reordering replicas can be combined with either of them.
Also, to add a replica it is necessary for its effective size to match or
exceed the pool size. Otherwise the whole operation fails and no changes are
applied. The effective size of a replica is the sum of sizes of all its part
files decreased by 4096 bytes per each part file. The 4096 bytes of each part
file is utilized for storing internal metadata of the pool part files.


# RETURN VALUE #

_UW(pmempool_sync) and _UW(pmempool_transform) return 0 on success.
Otherwise, they return -1 and set *errno* appropriately.


# NOTES #


The _UW(pmempool_sync) API is experimental and it may change in future
versions of the library.

The _UW(pmempool_transform) API is experimental and it may change in future
versions of the library.

# SEE ALSO #

**libpmemlog**(7), **libpmemobj**(7) and **<http://pmem.io>**

Commit message:

common: adapt local (lib)pmempool to NOHDRS option
This covers pmempool sync, transform and info for local poolsets +
tests + docs.

doc/libpmempool/pmempool_sync.3.md, after:

---
layout: manual
Content-Style: 'text/css'
title: _MP(PMEMPOOL_SYNC, 3)
collection: libpmempool
header: NVM Library
date: pmempool API version 1.1
...

[comment]: <> (Copyright 2017, Intel Corporation)

[comment]: <> (Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without)
[comment]: <> (modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions)
[comment]: <> (are met:)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.)
[comment]: <> (    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright)
[comment]: <> (      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in)
[comment]: <> (      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the)
[comment]: <> (      distribution.)
[comment]: <> (    * Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its)
[comment]: <> (      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived)
[comment]: <> (      from this software without specific prior written permission.)

[comment]: <> (THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS)
[comment]: <> ("AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR)
[comment]: <> (A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT)
[comment]: <> (OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,)
[comment]: <> (SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT)
[comment]: <> (LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,)
[comment]: <> (DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY)
[comment]: <> (THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT)
[comment]: <> ((INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE)
[comment]: <> (OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.)

[comment]: <> (pmempool_sync.3 -- man page for pmempool sync and transform)

[NAME](#name)<br />
[SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)<br />
[DESCRIPTION](#description)<br />
[RETURN VALUE](#return-value)<br />
[NOTES](#notes)<br />
[SEE ALSO](#see-also)<br />


# NAME #

_UW(pmempool_sync), _UW(pmempool_transform) -- pool set synchronization and transformation


# SYNOPSIS #

```c
#include <libpmempool.h>

_UWFUNCR1(int, pmempool_sync, *poolset_file,=q=
	unsigned flags=e=, =q= (EXPERIMENTAL)=e=)
_UWFUNCR12(int, pmempool_transform, *poolset_file_src,
	*poolset_file_dst, unsigned flags, =q= (EXPERIMENTAL)=e=)
```

_UNICODE()


# DESCRIPTION #

The _UW(pmempool_sync) function synchronizes data between replicas within
a pool set.

_UW(pmempool_sync) accepts two arguments:

* *poolset_file* - a path to a pool set file,

* *flags* - a combination of flags (ORed) which modify how synchronization
is performed.

>NOTE: Only the pool set file used to create the pool should be used
for syncing the pool.

The following flags are available:

* **PMEMPOOL_DRY_RUN** - do not apply changes, only check for viability of
synchronization.

_UW(pmempool_sync) checks that the metadata of all replicas in
a pool set is consistent, i.e. all parts are healthy, and if any of them is
not, the corrupted or missing parts are recreated and filled with data from
one of the healthy replicas.

_WINUX(,=q=If a pool set has the option *NOHDRS* (see **poolset**(5)), the internal
metadata of each replica is limited to the beginning of the first part in the
replica. In that case, only missing parts or the ones which cannot be opened
are recreated with the _UW(pmempool_sync) function.=e=)

_UW(pmempool_transform) modifies the internal structure of a pool set.
It supports the following operations:

* adding one or more replicas,

* removing one or more replicas_WINUX(.,=q=,

* adding or removing pool set options.=e=)

Only one of the above operations can be performed at a time.

_UW(pmempool_transform) accepts three arguments:

* *poolset_file_src* - pathname of the pool *set* file for the source
pool set to be changed,

* *poolset_file_dst* - pathname of the pool *set* file that defines the new
structure of the pool set,

* *flags* - a combination of flags (ORed) which modify how synchronization
is performed.

The following flags are available:

* **PMEMPOOL_DRY_RUN** - do not apply changes, only check for viability of
transformation.

_WINUX(=q=When adding or deleting replicas, the two pool set files can differ only in the
definitions of replicas which are to be added or deleted. One cannot add and
remove replicas in the same step. Only one of these operations can be performed
at a time. Reordering replicas is not supported.
Also, to add a replica it is necessary for its effective size to match or
exceed the pool size. Otherwise the whole operation fails and no changes are
applied. The effective size of a replica is the sum of sizes of all its part

files decreased by 4096 bytes per each part file. The 4096 bytes of each part
file is utilized for storing internal metadata of the pool part files.=e=)

_WINUX(,=q=When adding or deleting replicas, the two pool set files can differ only in the
definitions of replicas which are to be added or deleted. When adding or
removing the *NOHDRS* option (see **poolset**(5)), the rest of both pool set
files have to be of the same structure. To add a replica it is necessary for
its effective size to match or exceed the pool size. Otherwise the whole
operation fails and no changes are applied.
If the option *NOHDRS* is not used, the effective size of a replica is the sum
of sizes of all its part files decreased by 4096 bytes per each part file.
The 4096 bytes of each part file is utilized for storing internal metadata of
the pool part files.
If the option *NOHDRS* is used, the effective size of a replica is the sum of
sizes of all its part files decreased once by 4096 bytes. In this case only
the first part contains internal metadata.=e=)


# RETURN VALUE #

_UW(pmempool_sync) and _UW(pmempool_transform) return 0 on success.
Otherwise, they return -1 and set *errno* appropriately.


# NOTES #


The _UW(pmempool_sync) API is experimental and it may change in future
versions of the library.

The _UW(pmempool_transform) API is experimental and it may change in future
versions of the library.

# SEE ALSO #

**libpmemlog**(7), **libpmemobj**(7) and **<http://pmem.io>**
